...conditions worse-- Why don't you answer?
There are flames... Fire! Fire!
Capsule is on fire.
Twenty-one...
Thirty... forty... forty-two...
There are flames...
Could we please have it a bit warmer?
It's broken, honey. Snuggle down.
Mummy? What's she saying?
She's saying...
that the world is the wrong way around.
When's Daddy coming?
Mummy?
What's happened to Daddy?
Close the door, honey.
It's freezing.
Come, I'm gonna get the fire started.
Can I have a story?
Yeah.
I can read for you.
The iPad one.
The space one.
I prefer it.
Yeah.
Hi, I'm Johanna. I'm an astronaut.
And I work for the European Space Agency.
I live on the International Space Station.
I'm going to be up here for a whole year.
And I got a very special bedtime story.
It's called "The Little Rocket Girl."
- Do you want me to read it?
- Yes.
So, it goes like this.
"Up and out in space, it's very cold.
The stars move fast and the sun burns hot
just to try to stay warm.
Up and out in space, it's very quiet.
But the worst thing
about up and out in space
is that it can be very, very lonely."
Mamma!
Alice? Leaving in 15.
I'll be right down.
Stand by.
- I'm all ready to go.
- Okay.
Say hi.
Mission control connecting you now.
Mamma?
Good morning, honey...
Have you brushed your teeth?
Yes.
How many minutes?
Three minutes.
'Cause that's what we do in our family.
Are you going on your space walk today?
You don't need to worry, honey.
We're ready for it.
I know.
Would you like to say good morning to Yaz?
- Hi, Alice. Good morning.
- Hey, Yaz.
Are you nervous?
Just a little bit.
Do you wanna take a look at the lettuce?
I think they're looking fairly perky.
Some of them have woken up a bit.
What do you think?
- Isn't it magical?
- Looks good.
But I might let one
- of the others try it first.
- Yes.
Just a bit worried
that it might turn me into an alien.
- Check the connection.
- Copy that.
We have to whisper.
Why is that?
'Cause they're doing
something very fiddly at the CAL.
Hey, Alice.
Hi, Paul.
Your mom's big day today.
RPL. CAL data:
Core signals green, magnets aligned, 25.5.
- Copy, phase six.
- Copy.
Core temperature: minus 203 degrees.
Tune lasers.
Come on.
What does it do?
It's looking for a new state of matter.
What does that mean?
Don't know.
Eighty-four days till you're home.
Only 84.
I can't wait.
Aw.
I miss you so much.
I miss you too, Mamma.
Will you be careful when you go out there?
Always.
I'll see if I can see you.
- Wow.
- Look.
There you are.
You see?
- We're ready.
- All right.
Good luck, son.
Good luck, Commander.
I've always been lucky till now.
Hey, Alice.
Wave to yourself.
Begin.
Station, RPL, do you copy?
Get them back.
We're in the middle of something.
Mamma?
Are you there?
Everything all right?
She's gone.
Debris! Scallation!
Mamma?
Alice! Alice!
Houston, this is Station.
Do you copy?
Houston, this is Station. Do you copy?
- GC, lock the doors.
- Repository is not activated.
Station, Houston on space to Ground 1,
you have a depressurization.
All comms are open.
Crew gather in Soyuz 1 evacuation capsule.
Initiate pre-evacuation protocols.
Execute emergency response.
Houston, fire and fog in Zarya.
- Power down.
- Ilya!
Jo, go immediately
to nearest evacuation capsule, Soyuz 1.
Houston, there's a fire
between us and Soyuz 1.
Gather in Rassvet instead.
Jo, I can't get through!
Ilya, we need to get
to the evacuation capsule!
Copy.
What the fuck hit us?
Something hit us!
Get through now!
I'm out.
Brace me!
I'll get the hatch.
Station, you need to suffocate the fire.
Copy! On it!
Shutting off pressurization in Zvezda.
Something hit us.
- You guys okay?
- Hatch secured.
Crew, roll call.
Ericsson.
Andreev.
- Brostin.
- Suri.
- Lancaster?
- I'm stuck.
Air is clear.
Ericsson, Brostin,
air is clear. Assist Commander Lancaster.
Copy.
Andreev, Suri,
check systems and life support.
- We're on it.
- Checking.
Houston, we're losing oxygen.
- I can hear it.
- Station, copy.
Paul? How are you doing?
- I'm stuck.
- He's pinned in.
- He's covering the depress.
- We need to tourniquet him here.
- Apply pressure on the artery.
- Here, got it.
- Houston, Paul's injured.
- Copy.
His left arm is crushed beneath rack four.
He's bleeding heavily.
What's the status of the systems?
Ilya, what's the status?
Power outages in 55% of Zvezda and Quest.
Depress in Harmony, Columbus.
Jo...
you're in control now.
We need to give him oxygen.
- Copy.
- Go, go, go.
Crew, assess viability
of Soyuz evacuation capsule.
You're signaling serious oxygen
and pressure loss across the ISS.
Copy. Ilya?
- Paul, you're staying with me, huh?
- Yeah.
Audrey, you need to prep Paul
for immediate evacuation.
Just breathe.
- Are you with me?
- He's unfit for evacuation.
Jo, electrical failure in Soyuz 1 capsule.
Signals: 95% electrical failure.
Soyuz 2 functional.
Soyuz 1 damaged.
There's only three places in Soyuz 2.
We can only evacuate three of us.
Critical damage to all life support
and systems.
Stand by.
You're currently unable to launch Soyuz 1.
Pump.
If we can't move him,
we're gonna have to amputate the arm.
I'm so sorry, Paul.
- Jo...
- You're gonna be okay.
Jo? Ilya?
You were scheduled to do
a space walk this morning.
You need to complete the space walk
in order to fix life support
and damage to Soyuz 1.
I wanna come back.
Okay. He's out. What about Paul?
Jo, Audrey can take care of Paul.
Got it.
You need to assess damage
to Soyuz 1 evacuation capsule.
Fix life support and power.
- Copy.
- Then we can bring you home.
Here we go.
Okay, come on. This is terrible.
We can't both be late.
If you're paying attention,
we were six seconds
into deploying the laser
at the time of the accident.
The CAL would have retrieved information
within two millionths of a second.
Keep it below minus 120 degrees
and get a retrieval plan.
Commander, there's a signal from the CAL.
Something's coming through.
Irena Lysenko, Roscosmos.
Commander Henry Caldera.
- Chief Scientific Consultant...
- Henry.
...Rocket Propulsion Laboratories.
- Look.
- Michaela Moyone, NASA Mission Control.
- Oh, my God.
- Frederic Duverger.
Head of European Space Agency.
- So we had a serious collision...
- Come here. You see this?
- ...on the ISS...
- Holy shit.
...and we need to discuss a full evacuation.
Alice, hey, come on.
- Hi.
- Hey.
Hey.
Okay, everybody in your seats.
Good morning.
Are you okay, Wendy?
I had nightmares.
Jo, Ilya,
your objective is to assess the damage
to the electrical
and life support systems.
Understood.
Okay, Jo.
And you have a go for hatch opening.
Copy.
Hatch is open and secure.
- I'm heading outside.
- I'm right behind you, Jo.
Jo, Ilya,
handing you over to Roscosmos Control
to handle the space walk.
Good luck.
Copy.
Understood.
We'll direct. Let's get it fixed.
Okay, that's both of us clear
of the hatch.
You're gonna be in the dark
for approximately 20 more minutes.
Copy.
Jo, Soyuz 1 capsule
is signaling total power loss.
You need to fix power cables on Unity.
Got it.
Ilya, you're heading down
to check escape capsule Soyuz 2.
Copy that.
Over Nauka, approximately eight meters.
Some superficial damage.
But Soyuz 2 looks
like it's more or less intact.
Houston station,
operation completed on Paul.
Copy.
ISS is down to 30% life support.
ESA, you cannot overstate
the importance of this experiment.
We got a signal.
A double-quantum signal.
That is highly significant.
We appreciate the importance, RPL,
but we can't prioritize NASA experiments
over arranging an evacuation.
Don't lecture me
about the evacuation, Frederic.
I've been doing this for 50 years.
If we abandon ISS in the current
political climate, we're never going back.
NASA, the science is not
more important than the people.
We're not running
a goddamn kindergarten up there.
We found another state of matter
that can only exist in zero gravity.
Now, whatever is wrong up there,
it can be fixed.
Oh, shit.
We got severe collision damage
to the power supply.
Oxygen system, external power cables
sheared through from this side.
Cannot reconnect.
Damage irreparable.
Houston, please advise.
Paul is going into cardiac arrest.
Starting CPR.
One and two and three and four
and five and six...
Terminate EVA. Terminate EVA.
Prepare Soyuz 2 for immediate reentry.
EVA and Houston, disregard that command.
- That command is not agreed.
- RPL.
Houston, keep this loop clear.
I will not allow us to make that decision
until we have the schematics
to retrieve the CAL experiment.
Disagree. Let's end this call now
and get them down from there.
Sergei, continue with the space walk.
Jo, medical team is working on Paul.
Continue with EVA.
Copy.
Keep me posted.
Where am I heading now?
Tell her to head to the truss.
It's critical they fix
secondary life support systems.
What is the issue?
Jo, we can't see what you see.
- Check camera.
- Understood.
I got a red light.
It's a fault. Sorry.
We've got no cameras operating past Unity.
She needs to keep going.
Okay. One minute till sunrise.
Twenty-seven, 28, 29, 30.
Sunlight in five, four, three, two, one.
Jo, you need to head to the truss
to fix secondary life support,
otherwise, there won't be power
or oxygen for the crew repairs on Soyuz 1.
Copy.
Keep in mind we have no cameras
on the truss. They are all down.
We are flying blind from here.
Okay. Heading over
to secondary life support systems.
Okay, Jo.
Twenty-eight, 29, 30.
- Stop.
- Clear.
- Start.
- One and two and--
Rounding edge of PMM.
The truss is coming into view.
Oh, God.
Get amiodarone.
Twenty-one, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27.
Whatever hit us completely destroyed
secondary life support systems.
This is a substantial impact.
One and two and three and four--
- Can you see what caused it?
- Moving towards it.
Working my way closer.
Looks like it's a--
maybe-- 50 centimeter tear.
There's something tangled
up in the-- in the truss.
Ilya, can you copy?
Almost with you.
Jo, please confirm visual.
It's orange fabric.
I think I need to go from above.
Come back. Shit. It's a body.
Jo, please confirm.
Jo?
Jo, respond.
Ilya, we need visuals on Ericsson.
Jo! I'm coming!
Check my O2 mix.
Come on, Jo.
Come on.
Just a little. Yeah, Jo.
I got you.
Yeah.
She's secured.
Tell him to get a visual.
Andreev, get a visual.
Negative.
It was a woman. USSR. Soviet.
I saw a dead female cosmonaut.
Come on!
Come on, I'm not giving up!
You come back!
Come on.
Houston, TsUP...
Paul is dead.
I repeat, Commander Lancaster is dead.
I'm-- I'm sorry to pass this on.
Station is reporting
that Commander Lancaster has died.
He has died following cardiac arrest.
Bye, Paul.
Soyuz 2, prep for undock complete.
Deorbit Parameters are uplinked.
Families in transit to Baikonur.
Which is no fucking good
if we're all dead, is it?
Take it easy.
We have a repair schedule for Soyuz 1.
Three of you leave now in Soyuz 2,
the remaining crew member
fixes power damage in Soyuz 1
using 606 batteries
from the Russian command module.
Then Soyuz 1 is clear to return.
Why don't two of us go now in Soyuz 2
and two of us stay to repair Soyuz 1?
Insufficient life support
to sustain more than one person.
So, Ilya, Yaz...
Audrey, you came up in Soyuz 2.
Jo, I'll stay.
No, you're the Soyuz commander.
You bring these two back home.
That's an order.
What about Alice?
We've all got families.
It's a bit sticky, isn't it?
I'll tell you what, Luka, why don't
we just take the wings off and-and--
Or maybe we just start again
with this guy, shall we?
Is she gonna come back?
I hope so.
Why don't you say yes?
Because I don't wanna lie to you.
Listen, darling.
Mummy has every chance
of coming back, but it's tricky.
Nobody's ever not come back
from space before.
Not from an ESA flight.
I have to tell you something.
It's quite upsetting.
I'm afraid Wendy's dad has died.
What are we gonna do with our bikes?
We left our bikes.
Duration of SKD burn,
two minutes 57 seconds.
- Entry angle, 95 degrees.
- Ready to go?
- Parameters are set.
- Ready to go.
Anything you want us to say?
Take a message home?
If I don't make it back, will you please
be around for Magnus and Alice?
Tilting station.
Thrusters tested.
Full power. Unbolt.
Copy.
Bolt, armed.
Fire thruster,
KDU engines in three, two, one.
Mechanical disconnect.
I see separation.
Moving into approach trajectory.
Time to land: three hours 27 minutes.
God willing.
Bye.
Jo, you are to fill Soyuz 1
with enough provisions for 24 hours.
How much life support do I have?
How much oxygen?
Approximately 19 hours.
All right.
- Just listen to me.
- Go on through to the back, Alice.
Resend the orbit information.
Lancaster. We were just asking
as to the suitcases, the bags.
So sorry from all of us.
- I apologize again profoundly.
- Yes.
Oh, Christ.
I am so, so sorry.
Wendy,
why don't you go and sit with Alice?
I'm so sorry, Frida.
Do you want my rabbit?
Soyuz 1 is damaged.
It has breathable atmosphere but doesn't
have enough power to get you home.
Once you've filled Soyuz 1 with supplies,
you need to remove the dead batteries
and replace them
with the 606 batteries up in Zvezda.
You'll have oxygen and power in the ISS
every 45 minutes to do repairs.
Copy.
Jo, your family are on their way.
You can speak to them
when you get back to daylight.
Great.
Close main hatch.
- Pressurize.
- Copy.
Wait.
- I'll be right back.
- Jo,
the ISS only has solar power
for light and life support.
You have one and a half minutes.
Night's coming.
You won't be able to pressurize.
I just need to go and get something.
I will make it in time.
Jo, when night comes,
you'll only have oxygen in Soyuz 1.
I know.
- Jo.
- Tell Alice I'm taking her necklace.
- Jo, 20 seconds.
- I've got her necklace.
Mamma loves her. It means I'll be okay.
I'm coming back to her and Daddy.
Promise to pass that on.
Ten, nine...
- Promise to tell her.
- ...eight,
seven, six--
Sergei, do you promise?
If you don't promise,
I'm just gonna sit here and sulk.
- We'll pass it on.
- Thanks.
So, this is the procedure every orbit:
45 minutes in the light,
45 minutes in the dark.
Going out of comms.
Back in daylight in forty--
For the record,
and I know
how historically unlikely it is,
this is my rendering
of what hit the solar stack.
Female corpse
in USSR flight suit.
Should we go find Mummy, Alice?
Okay.
Oh, my baby.
Good morning, Station. Morning, Jo.
Good morning, Sergei.
- You're always so cheerful.
- Thank you, Jo.
We have approximately 17 hours,
49 minutes.
Let's go find those batteries.
Let's do it. I wanna get home.
The batteries weren't built to move,
but they should be accessible.
Understood.
It's gonna take longer than we thought.
SKD in minus 20.
Firing thruster in five, four,
three, two, one.
Separation complete.
Irena, you're in charge
of this goddamn evacuation.
I sent you a plan.
I want Ericsson to bring back the CAL.
Henry, I told them to leave your machine.
Why on God's earth would you do that?
For all I know, it caused the accident.
Irena, there is something contained
in the six seconds that it was running
that can make a difference to everything.
To you, to me, my brother.
It worked. We need it back.
We will not get another chance.
Send the retrieval plan, please.
Soyuz 2, confirm deorbit parameters.
Confirmed. Entry into atmosphere.
Capsule has re-entered atmosphere.
Send the CAL retrieval plan.
Yeah? Getting off the plane as we speak.
Heading straight to mission control.
What's her status?
All right. Yeah. Bye.
She's about to hit nightfall.
If we hurry, you can speak to her.
- Good.
- Yeah?
Cinch all your straps down tight
while you are under G.
Try to keep your airways open
by holding your head back.
Radio break off.
TsUP, do you copy?
We hear you, Ilya. Loud and clear.
Good to hear your voices.
Soyuz 2 deploys parachute,
entering controlled landing.
Jo. I have good news.
That's a successful landing of Soyuz 2.
Copy. Great.
Jo, we are sending some schematics.
RPL requests that you retrieve
one of their experiments.
- Which experiment?
- CAL data core in Destiny.
Don't know it. Not sure I'll have time.
It's a NASA experiment.
Don't jeopardize your safety.
Is my family there?
They're on their way.
- Ten minutes to nightfall.
- Copy.
I know you and Mummy were having problems.
But I still want you to be friends...
whatever happens.
Your family are in the building
and coming to speak to you.
I'd love to speak to them too.
Wonderful. We are setting that up.
Copy.
Let's get this battery done
before nightfall.
Let's do it.
Your family are walking in now.
Copy--
Station, this is TsUP.
TsUP, this is Station, come in.
What's happening? Daddy, what's happening?
Hello, this is Station.
Is my family there?
I'm gonna go ask them what happened.
You stay here for a second, okay?
Excuse me? Hello? Excuse me?
What's happening?
Please respond.
Alice. Come back. Alice!
Alice.
Alice!
Go in.
Shit.
Hello?
Wha--
Mamma!
Mamma.
Where have you been?